Today I will explain aliefs, beliefs, and cliefs.

Beliefs are the easiest ones. They're things you think are true. See also: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Belief

Aliefs are beliefs that do not rise to the level of beliefs; they are subconscious, they are feelings; they are often irrational. If you have been bitten by a dog, you might not believe that a large picture of the dog can bite you. But you might alieve it. See also: 

A subtle distinction: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Belief notes correctly that

> Moreover, beliefs need not be occurrent (e.g. a person actively thinking "snow is white"), but can instead be dispositional (e.g. a person who if asked about the color of snow would assert "snow is white").[2]

An alief is never held as an explicit belief (or else it would become a belief), but not all beliefs are explicit either. There is a different distinction between aliefs and dispositional beliefs; a subtle difference of meaning between the two. If someone asks you about the dog, you might when asked say that the picture of the dog won't bite you; yet you still might fear the picture of the dog.

A clief (which I pronounce "sea leaf") is an explicit belief that you do not actually believe. (But, not JUST every possible belief you don't believe.) If you asserted it in the regular way beliefs are asserted, it would be a lie. But there are other ways you stand in relation to this belief you don't hold — ways that you "have" this clief — that are profitable and not dishonest. For example, to get into the right mood, I like to say to myself: "I AM A GOD. I'VE NEVER BEEN WRONG. I WILL NEVER DIE." I don't literally believe any of that. I don't think I figuratively believe it, either (I don't believe myself to be the strongest man in the world, for example, which might be what "I am a god" is a metaphor for). I also don't think anyone would confuse such an utterance with a legitimate expression of propositional beliefs I hold. (Thereby, I am beating the allegations.) But I like saying them. And they have more relation to me and my state of mind than, say, nonsense words, like "chungus, bungus, wungus". Perhaps the easiest way to explain a clief is that it's an explicit belief you have, which you do not actually hold, nor do you claim to, nor are you mistaken about this state of affairs.
