arguments are or are not reasons, which are or are not the truth

in this post I'd like to make a point. It's rather an obvious point, but people seem to lose track of it.

at the same time, the point is one of those things that might be false if in your view the proper view of one of the terms I'm going to use is different than my usage here. we'll roll with it.

i have two points.

the first concerns the relationship between arguments and reasons. I think an argument just is a reason. In their core senses, the two are synonymous. Obviously, you could engage in the social practice of arguing and convince somebody of some viewpoint in some manner that doesn't really involve a reason. but actually, doing the social practice of arguing is just supposed to get you arguments from other people, which are reasons that they think you should believe something else. often, i will have an argument, and they seem to be under the impression that the point is to "win" the argument. nonsense. the point is to reason, and thereby achieve the truth.

now, the second point: reasons are not actually the truth. You can reason with a lot of good reasons and still not arrive at the truth. You can simply be mistaken about something, for example. or the case could be contrary to all previous examples. but the point is, you can reason all you like, and still be wrong sometimes. anyway, that's not that interesting. Also not very interesting, but slightly more, is the fact that articulable reasons — that is, reasons you can say aloud, perhaps persuasively in an argument — are a subset of reasons. You can have good reasons for believing something that you cannot articulate. especially if you're bad at articulating things. 

and so, with grace and dignity becoming of an adult in our society, instead of trying to win arguments with articulable reasons and rhetorical tricks, I now rest assured in the truth, and simply try to help people along; although sometimes they may not pick up on the reason until later if ever.
