2025-06-06: 𝝅𝝋 [Beating The Allegations Vs Building The Buffer](beating_the_allegations_vs_building_the_buffer.txt)

Here are two different strategies you could entertain while advocating for something: "beating the allegations" and "building the buffer".

There's also a "golden mean", "just doing the thing", which you might imagine I'd advocate, due to my famous remark: "we can just do the good things and not the bad things". However, I'm not actually sure that's the best move. It might vary based on context. Anyway, let me explain the actual scenario:

There are two possibilities, A and B; for instance these are two different laws you could have, two different states of affiars that could be achieved, two different ways society could operate, etc etc. These are not exclusive policies. You can have both A and B, or either, or neither. I hope that's clear.

Now, A is good and B is bad. Ideally, you'd like to have A but not B. The two are related, but only somewhat, and not inexorably. Perhaps it's as simple as most people who want A also wanting B. (*You* want A and not B, per stipulation, but other people can want bad things.) Perhaps B sort of sounds like A and so people get confused between them! There are all sort of possible relations that put you into the relevant position with regard to A and B. A and B are both issues under discussion.

Here are various examples, which I'm afraid will probably be a bit disquieting, because I've picked real examples, because all made-up examples sound fake. Please note that even though I said "A is good and B is bad" above, I'm not making that claim here: I'm just saying *someone* thinks A is good and B is bad, apparently (maybe they are, maybe they aren't):

• In the debate over gay marriage, it was sometimes said that letting homosexuals marry (A) would lead to letting other non-conventional marriages occur (B).
  ◦ (Perhaps you are a polyamorous homophobe, in which case maybe A and B are reversed for you!)

• In the recent Kamala—Trump 2024 presidential debate, both candidates seemed to latently agree on (A) moderate abortion laws. Kamala accused Trump of being willing to sign a federal abortion ban into law (B). Trump accused Kamala of supporting 9-month abortions (this is also a B, but a different B, in the opposite direction) (perhaps also they have different As, which are a little apart).
  ◦ Oddly, neither candidate was willing to disclaim the B the other one accused them of. This probably relates to the theme of this post.

• 

So, we have A and B

Moderates often beat the allegations

Sailer outpost theory

I have only two real reflections on this phenomenon, besides "hmm, well that's interesting":

1. If you're trying to get A, and A and B are both unpopular, it's probably a bad idea (instrumentally) for you to advocate for B at all. If you'd like to get gay married, and your opponents say "this man wants the dissolution of all families!" (nb: this is different from my related A-B example above) you probably shouldn't say "yes, I do, mwahaha!". (Only "should" in a tactical sense, though: actually, it's morally good for you to say whatever you actually believe.)
1b. This doesn't really apply to if A is already popular. If you
1bi. Actually maybe it does damage your credibilitiy. 

2. Something else about my own stances on things, but I've forgotten.


