it seems somehow silly to do good when the laws of society are apparently designed to promote evil. maybe deal with those first.

by the way, that only works if you're right. in fact, i think one of the main evils promoted by my current society is related to spreading anti-capitalist propaganda (ironically, degrading life for other people). and so forth. (that's one of the less-important ones)

so, doing the right thing will produce surplus for society, which it will then waste on evil.

for example, although I have a soft spot in my heart for most academics or college professors, I don't think they should get a government-funded sinecure to promote their doomed harebrained societal schemes. it's even worse for NGOs, i hear. like the Innocence Project, which has a pretty good concept, but apparently has pivoted to trying to get even clearly guilty murders off on technicalities (weird!).

actually, a way better example than all that is drug prohibition. here I am, living my life, contributing to society, when it's just arbitrarily illegal to do this cool fun thing. the state where i live legalized marijuana (technically it is still illegal on a federal level; although technically the federal government isn't allowed to make stuff like that illegal, and the Supreme Court case pretending that they are allowed was decided mistakenly) and it breaks my heart that the rest of you are still living in 1984 or something, where you can't even enjoy a puff of the wacky tabacky. ah, well. honestly, you probably can do that, no matter where you live, because apparently there are whole sets of laws that just don't get enforced to any significant degree. which is another gripe I have about this societal system I'm attempting to do good in.

so, anyway, that's crazy and evil. i have no idea why im trying to help you guys. if anything, i should flog yous. making drugs illegal! phew! what are you, storybook villains? if one guy were responsible for this, he would deserve the death penalty. however, this restriction seems to have been arrived at democratically, so I guess we all get to avoid blame. i don't have time to get into the whole argument about why drigs should be legal. if you Google it someone's probably making a good rendition of the argument on there. 

so it's weird that i promote this society (doing good does this, as a side effect, usually) when i think it's doing the wrong things. Maybe I should actually dedicate all of my energy to promoting good policies and advocating against the bad things. sorry, blind orphans; i had to secure justice first. (maybe)

another title for this post could be "eat your Conflicts first, then you can eat your Mistakes". if you know, you know.
