old knowledge sparse (new knowledge too much) in pack of cigarettes post

compulsory education is not only child slavery (which no one can dispute), it's also bad for other reasons.

in my ideal society we respect the human spirit. we would also enforce laws

freedom has an education education knows not. i think it gives people better values to be in charge of themselves, if you're worried about voting. complain to the administration blogpost link here. maybe make this its own post.

yeah i mean on the other hand It's crazy how much trouble people have apparently remembering the curriculum of k through 8 education when you could write it all down on one piece of paper as my friend said. but in that case just tell it to them later. just have "daycare" before then. more honest. also make it voluntary, because slavery is wrong.

by the way, I've been making a lot of practical arguments, because I think I can win those too. But I do really believe it's slavery and ipso facto wrong and you should stop, and if you want it to continue you are a bad person. We fought an entire war in my country to make slavery illegal, one of our bloodiest wars. We were very clear when we forged our new enlightenment understanding of man, that slavery is still immoral even if you happen to think it benefits the slave (most people claimed this about regular slavery). You can do something like slavery that benefits the slave, but it has to be optional on their part. i also Believe something along the lines that people are ends, not means, and so if You're justification for this human tragedy is that you want to brainwash them, this is a really suspect modem. But I mean, I could see that being the best move in some circumstances so I'm not as much of a hard liner on it. 

It may surprise you to know that I had a pretty alright time in school and enjoyed my peers and teachers and wasn't bullied or abused or anything. (The two things I thought were crazy where the fact that we were getting up at 7:00 a.m. to get there for no particular reason, and also the fact that apparently after having me for 6 hours a day or something they thought I should do extra work at home? how incompetent can you be at teaching?) i derived my hatred of the school system from pure and practical reason, which is how you know I'm an unbiased participant and you should trust my opinion fully.

the one thing i do regret about schooling is that i could have made about a million dollars by early-starting my career instead of doing it. But that's only one downside of many. and in that scenario I would have had to go out of my way to find more friends of my age (although if schooling were not compulsory this would probably be easier)
