Someone once told me that, apparently, master salesmen will say of sales: convincing people of things is like building a palace out of ice: you'd better be getting paid for it, because it's hard as heck and it comes to nothing in the end. The same is also generally true of programming. 

  And so, typically, one is programming for money, or at least for utility, or at the very least to accomplish something in particular that you are highly invested in achieving. however, sometimes this is not true. sometimes, if you're like me, at any rate, You come across some programming project, probably on GitHub, and you notice something is slightly wrong about it and so you decide to contribute, driven only by fellow feeling and the beauty of perfection in the universe.

    usually, this goes well. whether it's a typo, or a more-substantial pull request, people are usually happy to receive your contribution, or at least appreciate the suggestion and deliberately make a conflicting choice due to how they want to run the projects and close your pull request. these are both good outcomes, as they satisfy my innate desire for perfection.

    sidebar: I suspect this perfectionism may be genetic. both genetic and created by the environment of software. before I got into software, and indeed in some non-software domains, I thought ah whatever who gives a heck things are all akimbo in the world but I'm just going to leave them there. however, at some point in my vast career of using digital information systems, well, I think first I got used to editing typos on Wikipedia, and then when I came across a web page that had a typo but wouldn't let me edit it like a wiki, I was like "What the heck, man!". Not because the typo was terrible or unrecoverable from or anything, But just because I thought hey, this thing might as well be perfect, why don't I just go in and perfect it—— only then to notice that there was no way to contribute and finding my hopes dashed! But that's not really the interesting point of this sidebar. The interesting point, to me, is that one fine day on a recent morning, I was musing to my father about how I was a little bit worried that my continued exposure to software systems, where everything could be made perfect, would contribute to some kind of personality disorder in me where I demanded perfection even from the real world (which, to be honest, I already probably do). and, taking my comments as a springboard for his own, as one does in a conversation, my father
