It is a well-known fact that one of the most popular and perfidious fallacies of our day is the "isolated demand for rigor" (idfr), where for claims you like you just accept them based on cursory rigor but for claims you don't like you make them go through the highest possible gauntlet of rigor before you accept them (if at all). By "rigor" I mean epistemic/scientific rigor, something like wanting logically deductive arguments or overwhelming historical documentary proof or scientific studies with mind-boggling sample sizes. An equivalent formulation of this fallacy is "for a belief we like we ask if we can believe it; for a belief we don't like we ask if we must believe it".

This really is a fallacy and widespread, by the way. In fact, it's even more perfidious than most fallacies because people don't even know they're doing this. It's not like a rhetorical ad hom. They really are reasoning wrong in a way they can't detect from the inside. You can see this all the time if you really start studying people's patterns of thought intently.

Anyway, here are five (possibly overlapping) things that are like that, but not fallacies:

1. There is a claim I don't like, and also I disbelieve it for normal reasons.
    Remark: remember, "reversed stupidity is not intelligence". You can't just accept all claims you dislike to get out of this.
    Remark 2: accusing someone of idfr can be another fallacy, that of Bulverism. (Where your argument does not show that they are wrong, but assumes they are wrong and then argues for a (psychological?) reason why they are wrong; a type of ad hom.) Hopefully you are using your knowledge of idfr constructively instead! I think knowledge of idfr is often constructive because pointing out flaws in a train of thought is often constructive. However, sometimes a disbelief is just a disbelief, to play on the old saying about cigars.

2. Bayesian priors (also, "extraordinary claims require extraordinary evidence")
    Remark: reasoning from priors to posteriors in a bayesian way (or, even if you're not a bayesian, in some way that vaguely resembles bayesianism, if you like) is the correct way of reasoning and is widely regarded as such. You might note that this means you will be doing something that looks a lot like "for claims you like you just accept them based on cursory rigor but for claims you don't like you make them go through the highest possible gauntlet of rigor before you accept them (if at all)". Based on your priors.
    Remark 2: it's often helpful to distinguish "inside" and "outside" an argument (= train of reasoning) to avoid epistemic malpractice here. The basic idea here is that you should apply the massive bayesian penalty, if any, "outside", "at the end", or "after" the argument, once you have considered it fairly ("inside" of it). You can say "yes, there is the normal amount of evidence that X; but for other reasons X seems wildly implausible to me, so I conclude ¬X", if this is so, and thus avoid idfring. Cf, also, "defy the data".

3. Isolated demand for caring
    Remark: so for this one I'm thinking, like, you prove Y to a reasonable standard, and then from that you claim that you have shown X. For instance, you show that Jesus's disciples believed Jesus to be God and therefore conclude the case is closed that Jesus is God. You demand I "care" about Y, epistemically, much more than I think is reasonable. You might think I'm doing an idfr, but actually I just don't "care" about what you've been able to prove very much.
    Remark 2: this is probably a bad name for this, since you could just do an "isolated demand for caring" about your pet cause directly. Maybe we could go for "unfounded assertion of entailment".
    Remark 3: this is remarkably common. It's technically unrelated to the idfr in terms of its logical and dialectic structure but it's so common I had to discuss it here. I think people don't even quite realize there's an extra step a lot of the time, which leads to them thinking an idfr is happening.

4. You are talking to me, and I am a perfect angel of rationality compared to you, and you are not, and you are just now discovering my actual standard of rigor
    Remark: most people who try to call idfr on me have never been rigorous once in their lives, and are unfamiliar with how to do it. They'll say crap like "your rejection of this idea supported by this n=30 study and/or one historical anecdote that a historian thought was charming is an isolated demand for rigor!" They really have no idea. I'm not sure how they got this far without ever seeing conflicting evidence for anything in their lives before, apparently, else we would expect them to begin to suspect that they needed a higher standard...
    Remark 2: I am not quite sure where to put this other facet, so here works I guess: sometimes, I found the argument convincing as far as it goes, but my posterior probability is inevitably still far from certain. It's a mistake to say "the evidence weighs in favor of X, therefore X"; that isn't always true full stop.

5. My general ignorance about many things runs much deeper than you would expect.
    Remark: oftentimes, an argument you're familiar with doesn't convince me because I don't know what things are to begin with, so the proof doesn't go through. This seems like an idfr, but it's just because I don't start from the same point as you. This can apply to being unfamiliar with concepts, or other things like relevant authorities in subject-matter areas who vouch for things, whom you (reasonably) know you can trust but I don't.
    Remark 2: this seems distantly related to the annoyingly common phenomenon where at the end of the day people use the same term to mean different things, so many debates have the formal structure of "By [obvious, perhaps even deductive, reasoning], all squares are tigers. And by tigers I mean rectangles, or at least four-sided shapes." By dint of the fact that if I knew what you meant by that word to begin with, it would have been so obvious to me that we wouldn't even have needed the discussion.
