  I'm listening to some miracles / skepticism content (source of original hypothetical that sparked my train of thought: The Argument from Miracles https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zz6GapB6DMI by Counter Apologist), and based on some of the criteria some atheists are bringing up as situations in which they would think a miracle proves God exists, a situation has come to mind: hypothetically, imagine we live in a world like the X-Men or something, and some people have powers we can't explain, like turning water into wine. Maybe this works through some supernatural means we don't know about, or through some natural means we don't know about. But we don't know. The X-Men also have a religion, which purports to explain why this happens (sort of). I think the phenomena supports their religious claims, and might form the "best bet", but isn't entirely conclusive. Which is a funny situation to be in. Especially if you later find out "Well, those X-Men claimed that they could turn water into wine using the power of Jesus Christ, but it seems to be linked to the WaWino2 gene on chromosome 7".
  Incidentally, in my own life something like this really happened, with regards to Buddhism. Buddhists have a religion and it seems like their monks can do unusual things. For instance, entering unusual subjective states through the power of mind alone, and also miraculously becoming hot in cold weather. But after looking into this and rabbitholing on the latter, I came to conclude that actually anyone can enter these strange subjective states through non-obviously-divine practices like Buddhist style meditation, and actually they aren't becoming hot in an unusual way.
  Maybe this fails to capture what seems to me funny about the situation. I guess you can imagine, what if some people in India were able to remove their arms and then reattach them without damage, and they attributed this to being blessed by Lord Vishnu. I think we would all be suitably impressed and go well this Lord Vishnu guy seems to have something going for him! But how silly would it feel if after years of study we determined that actually anyone can do this; it's actually a thing humans could do all the time, just a skill we hadn't discovered yet; fully permissible by natural law.
  So even in the atheist's hypothetical that prompted this train of thought, which he was really taken by and thought would make him convert to Christianity immediately, where Catholic priests can repeatedly and verifiably turn water into wine (but no other priests can)... Well, I guess I would also convert to Catholicism, it being the best guess on offer, but I'm not going to give it all of my credence.
  Come to think of it, I'm sure someone has written a science fiction book about this already. Probably many 😆
