  I don't think this is cosmically interesting in any way or even has some take-home message or something, but I can always feel my pulse. The idea that you would need to put your hand on your chest or neck to feel your pulse has always seemed funny to me (although that does make you feel the pulse of your heartbeat with your hand, I agree).

  First of all, when I cast my attention to it, I can always feel my heartbeat in my chest cavity. Secondly, I can also always, when I pay attention, feel the independent sensations of the blood pulsing through every part of my body, especially my hands and head.
  
  (It's possibly that in "feeling my heartbeat", I'm actually just feeling the pulse of the blood in my chest cavity, not my heart muscle directly; I don't know if you can directly propriocept the heart muscle.)

  I've had both very good and average cardiovascular health, so I doubt this is indicative of any problem. (I was a runner for a while, and I got my pulse down to 60 beats per minute— which was my goal so I could use it for timekeeping, lifehack!) People also describe their heart pounding when they are stressed, but this isn't really it either; it happens both when I'm active and also when I'm calm. In fact, when I'm calm I can feel it the most, simply because I'm not distracted by anything else. (If I were stressed it's possible my heart would pound even harder and I would also notice that. I'm pretty sure this has happened to me a couple times in my life.)

  My heart also occasionally skips a beat, which is sort of like when your heart has an occasional hiccup. This is a disconcerting feeling, like when you miss a step in a stair. But I looked it up and it's fine. Many people have this happen occasionally, and it's nothing to worry about. It's known as an "ectopic beat": https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ectopic_beat . In case you were under the impression that "heart skipped a beat" was merely a figure of speech, instead of a figure of speech based on a real thing that can happen to you (especially, one imagines, in emotional moments, or when "you see a really cute girl" (as a friend of mine commented)) well, there you go. I wonder if other people are less prone to perceiving these skipped beats, if they can't feel their heartbeat anyway.

  My heart also has a murmur. But many people have such a murmur, and nothing looks weird on an echocardiogram (the heart exam where they put goo on your chest and then press an electric microphone against it to see it like a bat), apparently, so they let me leave.

  Maybe the rest of you just need to pay attention better in order to perceive your pulse! Try it. Sit still and really introspect and see if you feel a pulsing. It should feel like every part of your body moves slightly about every second, in a way indicative of liquid flowing through it.

  (I mean, gosh... I hope that's what that sensation is! It would be very difficult for me to explain otherwise what the heck was going on with me.)
