Edgar Allen Poe's classic short story “The Cask Of Amontillado” begins:

> The thousand injuries of Fortunato I had borne as best I could, but when he ventured upon insult I vowed revenge.

(This is spoken — internally — by the main character, Montresor, plotting his murder of the character Fortunato, and so I have dubbed it "the maxim of Montresor".)

In addition to being a delightful line itself, it seems to me that this statement illustrates something about liberal discourse norms. I should be very specific about what level of norm I'm talking about. It's not in terms of the government, which must not ban neither "insult" nor "injury". It's about so-called "civil discourse". (For instance, which people you should decide to shun socially or ban from your discussion forum, and so forth.) I'm also not necessarily claiming it's a good norm, but rather the one we find ourselves in, and one which is prima-facie reasonable (although on reflection we may wish to abandon it).

I will elaborate on the substance now. Forget "injury" in the sense of bodily blows — for Montresor was not faced with those either, and we shall take another metaphorical tack with them anyway. In the context of the liberal norm of civil discourse, "injury" for the purposes of this metaphor is advocating something that harms someone else's interests. For instance, if someone advocates raising taxes, or cutting benefits, or making something legal or illegal, all of these could be advocating against your interests, and so are the metaphorical "injury". Please note that this also includes such things as advocating for your very death, and so on. If you want to take the idea of liberalism seriously.

In the liberal norm of civil discourse, everyone is allowed to do as much "injury" as they want. Why? Well, there are several reasons. First of all, they have a human right to. Second of all, there are a lot of opinions about what to do, and we need to figure out which ones are best, through open debate and so forth. Thirdly, we all sort-of signed up for this bargain: all of your opinions will be tolerated the same way, but you must tolerate everyone else's; these are the rules underwhich our present liberal society (if you happen to live in one of those) WAS, IN FACT, created — you can advocate that we change this, but I guess you'd better use the process we currently have to advocate that change (how else would you do it? unclear. to the extent that the rules are actually efficacious at all).

So what's "insult", and how come you can take action (shun, deplatform, ban) against it in a context governed by liberal discourse norms? Well, for the purposes of this discussion, it's, uh, basically everything else. Any objectionable speech action that is not objectionable by way of what it advocates. This can be insult. Yelling, name-calling (in the sense of pure insult), goading, threatening, and, of course, insults plain and simple. To be able to do these things was not part of the bargain of liberalism, and they are adjudicated by different means — basically, a social consensus we've all metaphorically voted on. Maybe it's fine in some debate club to engage in yelling, and maybe in another they find it too disruptive and have banned it. James Acaster wrote an amusing novel in which one detail is that his debate team's tactic is simply saying to the other team: "I'm going to kill you" — they were disqualified from most tournaments.

By the way, this is also why it's important that "racism" is defined as "racial animus", which is instantiated as racial insults. TODO: drug war

Conflating the boundary between injury and insult.

Sort-of relatedly, I've begun to suspect that challenging someone to a duel, or (at your option) a non-lethal fist-fight or something, if they have insulted you, is a human right. My main piece of evidence is that when I think about someone insulting someone else seriously, and being challenged to a duel, I think, "yeah, that's just" (it has the virtue of justice). Naturally, I don't think you should be able to get out of legal procedures and accusations by a duel (although, I suppose at the option of both parties, this could be done, if it's something like a lawsuit). Further reading: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=56Krr6EwuOQ