What is the manner in which art is good? I use here the word art in a modern sense, encompassing plays, books, movies, music, and video games (not in an old sense where it would mean craft or cunning); and also in a broad sense encompassing YouTube videos, songs you sing to yourself when you're alone, graphical patterns you appreciate, furniture, and newspaper comics (which is to say, I do not exclude any sort of aesthetic creation from the category of art on account of it not being, eg, sophisticated enough. This is simply how I'm going to use the word art in this post; I do not dispute that some of the things I call art are radically greater aesthetic values than others).

probably the main and most plausible instrumental theory of art is entertainment/experience. I have come to think of this as almost a deflationary account. amusingly, my dad is a sophisticated man who watches a huge amount of television and movies (so does my mom, but my mom sleeps through a lot of them so it's unclear what her exact relationship to them is), but he has this account of them. just something to do. hopefully, something to do and like doing!

Some people have a usefulness/educational account of the reason for which art is good, which has always struck me as implausible. The idea basically seems to be that art will teach you something. This is less demeaning than that phrasing might make it seem, because the thing it's trying to teach you is something mighty about the human soul or the nature of reality or so on. (I wish to make a distinction between this and "edutainment", in part because it's very obvious what the value edutainment is explicitly aiming for is. Many people have capably skewered the very concept of edutainment, elsewhere.) I think of Jonathan Blow as one of the leading proponents of this theory in the modern day, due to the number of times he has explained what he makes video games for — it's not just entertainment, and it's not just escapism: 

It's recently occurred to me that the correct resolution to the question of the purpose of art is not usefulness, nor really enjoyment, but in fact that creating and experiencing art is another category of good that is not dependent on the other two (although, of course, it can be traded off against the other two, by normal cunnseems
