Some days ago, I was listening to the vice-presidential debate with some friends of mine. At one point, I think maybe his closing statement, vice-presidential candidate JD Vance spoke about how he had met a man on the campaign trail who couldn't even afford food (?!) but was full of hope for America, and so forth.

I've thought about this ever since. Mostly because food is so cheap these days. So, what was up with that? Lol.

But, anyway, it was also a touching and effective example of what I will call standard politician propaganda. The other guy, the opposing vice-presidential candidate, whose name escapes me at the moment, Bob Barker or something, also did a pretty good job at the same style of propaganda. It just didn't stick with me, because everyone he met was able to buy food.

Politicians have a particular way of talking, a particular way of making speeches. Technically, they can say all sorts of things, but generally they say something like: I have traveled this great nation, and the people of the nation are by-and-large honest, decent, and hardworking folks; loving and wanting the best for everyone. I wish only to be a great steward for the natural potential of these great people, and help us achieve even more greatness, and/or avert disasters. I love you.

I noticed myself thinking these things as well. I would go outside, and encounter, briefly, random people on my walks, and also when buying things from stores, and be filled with well-wishes for them, and enamored with their casual generosity, and complete lack of gratuitous cruelty. And I realized: this thing that politicians are always saying, that people are generally nice and the nation is general good, and just needs to be stewarded (to some extent or another) and averted from disasters? It's true. The moral comportment of the propaganda of a politician is a good thing to have, because it is correct; this is a correct assessment of the situation and a congruent moral attitude to have towards it.

"I have always relied on the kindness of strangers."

Many things politicians say are basically lies, or mistakes they're making, or meaningless, or hot air. But I think this one, despite sounding similar to hot air, is actually quite accurate and meaningful.

It's like if you were very rich, and you and your rich friends were electing a wealth manager to help you become more rich. You wouldn't want a guy who pretended you were poor to create a sense of urgency. That guy wouldn't be right, and probably has some weird problem. He's objectively wrong and/or his moral comportment is wack. You would want a guy who says "we're very rich, and that's awesome. We could become even more rich, which is even cooler".
