The people are afraid of listening to music.

One of the petty biographical details of my life is that for the first twenty or so years of my life, I was unduly prejudiced against classical music. Don't get me wrong—most classical music is still bad and boring. As is true of everything (Sturgeon's Law, approximately). But in the past I thought it was more like 95% was bad, whereas now my estimate is more like 50%.

I've been to several classical music performances in my life and, since they never pick a slate I think is good, I find it usually helps to zone out and think of something else. Gives you a nice little soundtrack for your more-important thoughts.

Why is this? That is to ask, why did I have such an undue impression? Well, one of the reasons is that my mother was a fan of classical music, and would play it on the car radio. This introduced three properties of the situation:

  1. The classical music was essentially chosen at random, by NPR (or whatever), by a station that played classical music all the time, so they couldn't just play the best of; they had to circulate through, essentially, every piece of classical music ever performed, more or less. This is actually a good property, and should have helped me form an accurate impression.

  2. The music was playing on a car radio, which was not great. The dynamic range was probably compressed. The high notes were probably obscured by static (that particular type of radio static I can't describe adequately, that I suppose might be some kind of predictable mechanical interference in the frequency of the receiver.)

  3. Infuriatingly, in retrospect (at the time I did not know what I was missing), my mother would adjust the volume of the music on the radio to be *too quiet*, at approximately *the level of the road noise*. This means the music sounded worse because the fine details of the music were rendered imperceptible by the external noise of the road and the wind rushing by etc. (I don't want to go into a full explanation of why this is inevitable, but consider: if a given sonic detail (eg, a detail of the timbre of a note) at a given volume might come from either the road or the music, how could you tell which it comes from?) Furthermore, louder music always sounds better. This is a well-known fact of music perception. I assume it's because the features in louder music are more salient.

This was brought to my mind recently on a road trip with a friend, where he did the same thing; consistently adjusting the music in the car to be too quiet.

Now, it's possible, I suppose, that my mother and my friend are both (against all other evidence I have from speaking to them?) gifted with super-hearing, such that they can perceive details in music I cannot at low volumes. And they would have to have super-normal hearing, because in the course of regular medical examinations, my hearing has been tested, and has always been found to be perfect; to whatever standard they measure to, in those tests of hearing impairment—so I am at *least* a reasonably normal benchmark of hearing ability.

(Incidentally, one of the things I have learned in my life is: I often can't understand what people are saying in noisy environments etc, but this is not because I have hearing loss or an auditory processing disorder; I know this because for years after not understanding a garbled statement, I would turn to whoever was next to me and ask, "What did he say?". The answer is almost always "I don't know".

Sometimes the answer is "I'm not sure, but... (a guess based on context and phonic elements)". In fact, since that's just a puzzle, and I am good at puzzles, I am quite often the one with the best guess, of all of the listeners, about what has been said.

So, in fact, people are often saying things in noisy environments, unclearly, etc, and no one understands what they are saying. And life just goes on. Really *I'm* the weird one for wanting to know what people say when they talk, just because that's the point of talking. (To say nothing of my annoyance that people insist upon going somewhere extremely loud, like a dance club, and then try to talk there. Madness! Shut up and dance.))

But I don't think there is a difference in hearing ability. I think these people are robbing themselves of the full range of music, and they are simply making a mistake. I think they do this because they are superstitious about volume level and hearing damage. The people are afraid of listening to music.

Now that I'm done with the complaining part of my blog post, it is now my civic duty to dispel this myth, which I will do by looking at a couple wikipedia pages and doing some intuitive math.

This reasoning is not airtight, but consider: 85dB is about the level where long-term exposure can cause loss of hearing. This is about the volume of standing next to a road with cars going by quickly. Hopefully, you can perceive the difference between the road noise inside of a car and the road noise outside of the car. Hopefully, it will also be apparent to you that the music in a car would have to be *quite* loud in order to sound as loud cars going by outside of a car.
