  https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XejJ6PzPtEw (jan Misali's “how many Super Mario games are there?”) I'm rewatching this, and it seems like one of the obvious weak points, which comes up with Bowser's fury and New super Luigi u, is that it's ambiguous whether "game" means an actual game (a series of levels, etc) or a game product you can buy. I think people could make a decision based on these meanings that would make the results ambiguous for no reason. For instance, if you have the actual game Bowser's fury, and the actual game Super Mario 3D World, Nintendo could sell you the game products super Mario 3D World, Bowser's fury, and Super Mario 3D World + Bowser's fury (in fact they only sold the first and last of these). And if you aren't clear on the distinction, You might say that's three different games, or two different games, or maybe even only one game because it's possible to buy a game product that contains both of the two actual games at once.
  You can also imagine people operating under a sort of ad hoc procedure, if you ask them about game products, where they only count a game product as a game in the series if it contains no actual games that have ever been previously released, or if it contains any actual games that have never been previously released, or if it contains enough new actual games that the resulting game product feels like "a new thing", or any number of criteria like that. 
  The fact that many of the authoritative sources for lists of games in the Super Mario series deal in game products, for the obvious reason that these are the real things bought and sold and released as products, probably muddies the conversation If you want to talk about actual games, which I think is the truer and more interesting conversation.
  I imagine myself trying to answer the question of if Super Mario 3D World + Bowser's Fury is a mainline Mario game, having just answered that Super Mario 3D World is such, and thinking "wait, is any game product that contains an actual game in the mainline Mario series therefore a mainline game product? Does this mean there are like 18 games in the actual game mainline Mario series, but every re-release of them is in the game product mainline Mario series, which therefore has mainline 100 game products due to re-releases and bundles? Or is this game product just another way to get at the underlying actual game of Super Mario 3D World, and therefore shouldn't be counted separately? Or maybe if I consider Bowser's fury to be a novel actual game in the main line Mario series then this does become a main line Mario game product, even though if it were Super Mario 3D World + (completely novel Mario kart game) it would not be?"
  And all of these ways of counting or accounting seem somewhat plausible, and could lead people to give different answers, even though that's not really the interesting part of the question, and instead is just a detail about how they categorize the actual game to game product canonicalization procedure.

  https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-Ddmjcy3lEs (jan Misali's “how many Super Mario games are there NOW?”) in the follow-up survey, detailed in the follow-up video I am also rewatching, Jan misali was so flummoxed by this problem, and it affects so few games, that he just left Bowser's fury as a standalone off of the survey ha ha.